The variables selected for analysis are the total views on a video, the total likes on a video, the category of a video posted, the age demographics of those that watched the video, the views per like ratio, total subscribers a video brought in, and finally, the gender demographics of those that viewed each video. Data was gathered through observing user data on the YouTube Studio application, and all data was gathered from a singular channel. 

The first variable, total views, which is a quantitative variable, was measured by the number of total views that a video got. This variable was measured through observing the data provided on YouTube studios. The values in this variable follow the structure of a quantitative variable, in that they are not categorically organized and are not subjective, rather the numbers were facts that held true at the time of recording the data. 

The second variable, total likes, another quantitative variable, was measured by the number of total likes that a video got. This variable was measured through observing the data provided on YouTube studios. The values in this variable follow the structure of a quantitative variable, in that they are not categorically organized and are not subjective, rather the numbers were facts that held true at the time of recording the data. 

The third variable was the type of video, which was measured on a categorical scale which included anti-left wing, pro-right wing, or other, in the event that a video did not fill either of the two main genres. These categories were assigned subjectively, and there could be arguments over which category certain videos fit in. This coding scheme was used to indicate the exclusivity of each category while assigning a more fluid and coherent scheme to the variable. 

The fourth variable was the type of most prominent age demographic, which was measured on a categorical scale which ranged from between 13-17, between 18 -24, between 25 - 34, between 35 - 44, between 45 - 54, between 55 - 64, and 65+. These categories were assigned by using Google User Data, which records which age group each user falls under. Therefore, the coding scheme followed the same metrics recorded by Google in order to display what the most prominent age group was. 

The fifth variable, total views per like, a quantitative variable, was measured by dividing the total number of views by likes for each video. This variable measured the viewers satisfaction with the video, which was deemed as necessary due to the algorithms of YouTube working in odd, and often clunky ways, sometimes leading to unpopular videos being sent en masse, and popular ones not being pushed out to users.

The sixth variable, total subscribers, was a quantitative variable measured by the amount of times somebody subscribed to the channel directly off of the published video. This variable was measured through observing the YouTube studio data, which had provided minute-by-minute updates on the amount of direct subscribers from said video. The values in this variable follow the structure of a quantitative variable, in that they are not categorically organized and are not subjective, rather the numbers were facts that held true at the time of recording the data. 

The seventh, and final variable is the average gender demographic, which was measured on a categorical scale which ranged from between 0-74% male, 75% - 89% male, and then 90+% male. These categories were assigned by using Google User Data, which records which gender each user identifies as. Therefore, the coding scheme followed the same metrics recorded by Google in order to display what the most gender demographic was at the time of recording the data. 

This project requires access to the YouTube analytics to the YouTube channel, “Politically Motivated”, in order to be able to properly observe and replicate this project. It also requires constant updates to data due to the frequently adjusting nature of videos, and the YouTube algorithm. 
